# StockMarketPrediction
Forecasting involves predicting values for a variable using its historical data points or it can also involve predicting the change in one variable given the change in the value of another variable.
I have used the ARIMA model in my approach to analyse the data and forecast the future values.ARIMA stands for Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average. ARIMA is also known as Box-Jenkins approach.
The ARIMA model combines three basic methods:
AutoRegression (AR) – In auto-regression, the values of a given time series data are regressed on their own lagged values, which is indicated by the “p” value in the ARIMA model.
Differencing (I-for Integrated) – This involves differencing the time series data to remove the trend and convert a non-stationary time series to a stationary one. This is indicated by the “d” value in the ARIMA model. If d = 1, it looks at the difference between two-time series entries, if d = 2 it looks at the differences of the differences obtained at d =1, and so forth.
Moving Average (MA) – The moving average nature of the ARIMA model is represented by the “q” value which is the number of lagged values of the error term.
We used the ARIMA model to predict the future price of Gold using a training dataset of 100 values.We have achieved an error of 9% and this is because sample size was pretty less and to improve the accuracy we must consider a larger sample data so that there may not be any discrepancies in the future values.This entire model can be combined with shiny package in R to create a dashboard web application for multiple stocks and also for a better and a more efficient prediction.
